are you looking for ways to boost your
libido this video specifically is
targeted for women who are looking to
increase their sex drive increase their
sexual desire and naturally address the
reasons why maybe that feels like their
libido has tang if this topic resonates
with you ladies i promise i'm going to
share with you eight specific ways to
turn around your libido increase your
sex drive and get that passion back into
your life let's dig into today's video
[Music]
one of the things that i found that is
very common with my female patients
really of all ages but particularly
women between their like mid-30s to 60
plus
is the frustration that it feels like
their libido has tanked and there's an
assortment of reasons behind this and
i'm going to share with you
those reasons the causes and most
importantly how to turn your libido
around in eight simple ways a lowered
libido reportedly affects one out of
every three women so on average one out
of three of you watching today's video
this might be impactful and i frankly
think it's higher
than what we're seeing in the polling
because the majority of my patients
experience some decrease or change in
their libido generally it's driven by
hormones and stress and we're going to
dig into that today so number one the
reason for a lower libido is actually
rooted in hormonal imbalances there are
very specific hormones that need to be
elevated and balanced to help enhance
our libido and they aren't just
progesterone and estrogen and they
aren't just testosterone frost ladies
an underlying precursory hormone that
tends to be in a low category for a lot
of women when we test is a hormone
called dhea
this can be analyzed by saliva or blood
and i always recommend test before you
guess so get a broader snapshot of your
hormone levels you also want to analyze
estrogen to progesterone that ratio
should be three to one and even more
importantly you can dig into three
different types of estrogen levels by
evaluating estradiol esterone and
estriol
those specific values can play a role in
terms of hormonal imbalances that are
leading to
a decrease in your libido and for women
who might be coming off of breastfeeding
measuring prolactin levels is also going
to be a value that can greatly influence
your libido if you are interested in how
to level up your testosterone levels
make sure you subscribe to my channel a
few videos from now i'm going to be
highlighting how to boost naturally your
testosterone levels i think you'll find
that video very impactful so make sure
you subscribe and tune in for that video
when it releases the second major
contributor to a lowered libido is
actually stress hormone a particular
hormone called cortisol if you're a
regular viewer of mine you know i'm
constantly talking about stress and
cortisol and again this is one of those
ones you want to test and not guess you
can actually analyze your cortisol
levels by taking a saliva based test
i'll include all testing links down
below i can run tests for all of you who
are interested in quick fast at home
tests to evaluate these levels and
identify
where the root cause might be but
getting back to stress stress is a huge
component
in creating hormonal imbalances so even
deeper than progesterone estrogen
testosterone dhea being decreased
cortisol can be the reason all of those
are in a lower level so stress hormone
controlling it managing and leveling
down or leveling up cortisol is going to
be important for promoting your libido
and enhancing that libido and the reason
why cortisol is so influential with our
libido is that when we are dealing with
cortisol imbalances that's simply our
fight-or-flight system so when we are in
a fight-or-flight state our body is not
in a reproductive state meaning our
libido tanks because we're not in a
situation where it's safe to procreate
so libido dips because that is what is
going to enhance procreation it's a
simple evolutionary trait of our human
body but it's frustrating when you might
be dealing with a great life and a great
partner and your libido is completely
zero if you happen to know that your
cortisol levels are elevated the best
way to reduce those is using a compound
called cortisol manager i recommend this
all the time for my patients it helps
level down and reduce the influence of
cortisol
in reducing our progesterone our
testosterone and other values like dhea
the third influential factor behind a
lowered libido is actually imbalanced
sleep optimizing your sleep can go a
long way to enhancing your libido
and part of this is rooted in lower
melatonin levels there's actually
research and studies that shows that
women particularly in the perimenopausal
and menopausal phase of life and that
could be as early as our mid-30s to our
60s and 70s depending on your hormonal
balance and your hormone cycle our
melatonin levels match up and pair up
with those perimenopausal and menopausal
phases of our life
so this study actually shows that
melatonin works by opening up our
centers and pathways of sexual arousal
so when we have decreased melatonin our
pathways are not going to be
communicating thereby reducing that
inclination to having a libido or
experiencing a lack of sexual desire
melatonin can lift that it opens up the
pathways to sexual desire and can lift
your libido so elevating melatonin a
secreted neurotransmitter by the pineal
gland can be greatly impactful in
leveling up your libido and the study
shows that adding two to four
grams of melatonin an hour or two before
desired sexual interaction
can boost your libido it's as fast
acting as that so that's really exciting
and i'm curious for you to try that and
comment down below and let me know and
all of the other individuals watching
how it goes for you number four i want
to talk to you about some of my favorite
aphrodisiac
herbs this is really really well
researched and there's a lot of
historical instances in literature and
other practices of natural medicine that
shows these herbs i'm going to share
with you are highly beneficial at
lifting libido
my favorite herb number one is the
peruvian herb i've talked a lot about it
it's called maca maca is amazing for
enhancing libido and the form of maca
that's going to be most beneficial for a
libido is going to be a liquid form so
be cautious in reaching for powders of
maca reach for the liquid or
encapsulated form of maca
the second herb is called shadavari this
is the mother of all aerobatic herbs and
it helps women in all different
categories of hormone balancing and
libido lifting one of the things that i
love is it helps to balance prolactin
levels so when women are experiencing
high prolactin levels it'll balance it
out it's also going to be beneficial in
reducing hormonal imbalances within the
progesterone and estrogen ratio it is
such a great libido enhancing tonic
another fantastic aphrodisiac herbal is
damiana or damiana depends on how you
want to say it but i love it because it
is very enhancing of our sexual centers
and enhances sensitivity to our nipples
our clitoris and just overall enhances
arousal another fantastic amazonian
herbal that is great for enhancing
libido is mora parama this is a
fantastic herbal sometimes you'll see
all of these in a blend and i'll post a
link to one of my favorites that i
recommend for a lot of my patients and i
will admit i even take it it's wonderful
the fifth herbal is a chinese herbal and
this is well known for
also addressing hair loss that's
hormonal related and reversing gray hair
it's known as the longevity the
youthfulness herb and it is called hosho
wu now the fifth thing that i recommend
for patients that come to me and say i'm
having a reduction in libido my
partner's frustrated i'm frustrated and
i'm not sure what's going on i
specifically evaluate with these
patients
medications that they may be taking that
might be driving down their libido so
know that if you are taking birth
control pills
certain high blood pressure medicine
medications that address anxiety and or
depression as well as medications that
address gerd or acid reflux all of these
certain medications can greatly lower
female libido so just be cognizant that
maybe your medicine cabinet your
prescription meds might be the ultimate
source of lowering your libido and then
there might be some additional
influences like an imbalance in sleep as
well as hormonal imbalances and stress
influences sixth and one of the least
discussed categories for women is the
experience of pelvic pain especially
during intercourse and just anticipating
pelvic pain is enough to drive the
libido into a negative category pelvic
pain is a broad experience it could be
uterine pain it could be vaginal pain it
could be vaginal dryness it could just
be irritation during sexual intercourse
any discomfort is going to automatically
dissipate any libido that a female
experiences
so addressing the pelvic floor by doing
pelvic floor strengthening exercises is
highly recommended they're actually
physical therapists that specialize in
supporting and enhancing your pelvic
floor i'm going to link to some awesome
youtube channels and some instagrammers
that i love to recommend and their
exercises if you deploy these every day
will actually strengthen up your pelvic
floor this is specifically aimed at
women who've maybe had a cesarean
section or a partial or full
hysterectomy
or have even had pelvic or abdominal
surgeries like a removal of an appendix
a removal of a gallbladder all of those
factors can contribute to pelvic pain
and i just want to have a quick little
caveat here a lot of times women are
told by their ob gyns or well-intended
friends and family just to do kegels and
that the best way to do kegels is to sit
on the toilet and urinate and then hold
and then urinate and hold and urinate
and hold that is actually a horrible
recommendation if you want to do kegels
the place to do them is in the gym or in
a fitness setting where you're mostly
focusing on pelvic floor activities it
is not when you're urinating because
that can sometimes have the reverse
effect so if you're doing kegels while
urinating stop that's my big
recommendation and i hope it's a big
takeaway for you today the seventh
reason behind a lowered libido could be
a reduction in lubrication and this
relates to the pelvic pain
a lowered lubrication of the vaginal
canal and arousal when it's reduced that
can also lead to lower lubrication i'm
going to share with you one of my
favorite favorite lubricants it is a
fantastic product that is all natural
and that can help minimize the lack of
lubrication that also can lower the
stress and lower the anticipation of
pain or irritation and can make your
sexual experience more pleasurable which
actually adds to
the sensations of pleasurability and
those pathways to greatly enhance your
libido so the kind of working it and
using those pathways opening those up is
important and lubrication can sometimes
be the key to opening up those signaling
pathways my eighth and final
recommendation is to add in nipple
stimulation and this is something that
can occur on your own or with your
partner and sometimes i recommend both
so this recommendation specifically is
aimed at connecting your brain
to your genital
sensory
centers
and that specifically that pathway
sometimes can get disconnected and it
can be disconnected for a lot of
different reasons but we want to
reconnect it and so gentle
nipple stimulation starting outside the
areola with gentle circles sometimes
with a lubricant like i just recommended
or with an oil or lotion with yourself
or your partner can be a very
positive way of opening up those
communication centers and when i say
very gentle
light circular pattern around the outer
part of the areola
i'm not recommending pinching twisting
flicking or being quite violent to the
nipples so this is a specific
communication pathway that we can open
up by
gently stimulating the outside of the
nipple the areola the outer part so
basically you're going to be touching
the breast the skin on the breast not
the actual nipple itself
that gentle activity of maybe 10 or 15
gentle circles on both left and right
breast can open up a signaling pathway
to
send pleasurable signals and
communication to our
genital
sensory cortex that's an actual thing
that exists in our body and we can dust
off the cobwebs and lift your libido by
doing a very specialized nipple
stimulation
so my question of the day
which of any of these have you maybe
tried which might you be interested in
trying i love your thoughts comment down
below and i just asked that everybody
remain pg
pg13 please
no sort of explicit communication below
i simply impart this information to help
each of you
ladies
enhance your libido naturally these tips
and techniques work they're heavily
researched and quantified and i'm
excited to have you test these out in
your own life and make sure you hit the
description box below for more
information and and ways to enhance your
libido naturally thanks for tuning in
i'll see you on my next video
[Music]
you